# CS-465

**Architecture**
The SPA dynamically updates HTML components of a page, whereas Express focuses on rendering entire HTML pages and serving them individually to the user. In Express, each page you visit is a new HTML script, compared to SPA, where it's all one page that never gets reloaded, but the components of the page are updated to show the functionality. The Express method is simple and straightforward while having linear performance, as each page has to be loaded upon request.
The SPA is front-loaded and takes a while to load initially, but its performance is not an issue after that. On the other hand, with Express, although simpler, it takes more time to render each page. SPAs generally require more initial setup and planning due to their modular structure but allow for rapid development of dynamic features. In contrast, Express with HTML and JavaScript has less initial overhead but becomes harder to manage for complex UIs. SPAs are ideal for creating highly interactive applications, while Express-based methods work well for simpler, content-driven websites.
**Functionality**
JSON is used to send data objects between the database, server, and client, whereas JavaScript is a programming language for client- and server-side logic. In the case of Angular and Express, JavaScript is used to write the entire application.
One instance of refactoring was creating Handlebars in the Express application to help dynamically update HTML templates. This was critical for making a website that required less backend development because it allowed the application to react to new trips being added and automatically display them on the page, instead of a developer manually adding them to the template.
**Testing**
For testing, I used Postman to validate that the endpoints are working as intended, as it allows us to receive JSON messages and interpret the HTML response. This is important in things like authentication, so we can ensure that the application is correctly checking web tokens and ensuring that the application can't be accessed maliciously.
**Reflection**
This course was my first experience in web development and really created my initial understanding of how web apps work. It forced me to dive into previously written code and understand it at a high level to make the necessary updates and add functionality to the application. This is a critical skill that will help me in my future career. I had a basic understanding of how the routes set up the URL endpoints, but adding the CRUD models allowed me to get a better understanding of how a website can dynamically respond to the same endpoint based on which CRUD operation is being used. Another great skill I learned was using the developer tools in the browser to better understand what is happening and how information is presented or hidden as it is sent from the client to the server. Overall, this course ended up really ramping up in work toward the end, but I am emerging as a more experienced developer than I have from any other course.
